1. What is Kdb ?

Kdb is an extremely fast RDBMS extended for time-series analysis.

2. Does Kdb support SQL92, ODBC and JDBC ?

Yes.

3. Is Kdb a read-only RDBMS ?

No. Kdb is very fast for OLTP (online transaction processing). 
For example, it runs over 50,000 ATM-style transactions per second logged 
to disk with full recovery on a single cpu. This was against a database of 
over 100,000,000 accounts, tellers and branches. Kdb can do batch updates at
several hundred thousand records per second per cpu.

4. Is Kdb a memory resident RDBMS ?

No. Kdb has minimal memory requirements and is very fast from disk.  
For example, it ran the gigabyte TPC-D (an industry standard decision support benchmark)
queries and updates on a 200MHZ PC with 64 megabytes of memory, an ultrawide SCSI 
controller and four disk drives many times faster than the best published results 
at a fraction the cost.

5. What about time series ?

Kdb handles much more than just SQL92 tables. Online analytical 
processing (OLAP) on multi-dimensional arrays is done with our 
extended SQL language, KSQL. For example, on the 35 megabyte OLAP APB-1
benchmark queries, Kdb ran 12,000 queries per minute with no precalculation.

6. Since Kdb is so fast, does it require more storage ?

No. Kdb is simple and will often store just the raw data.  
For example, in TPC-D, the published results required storage 
between 3 and 10 times the raw data.  The Kdb factor is a little over one.
Some OLAP tools require (for fast queries) massive precalculations. For example,
in APB-1 some expanded the 35 megabytes of input data to many gigabytes. Kdb
aggregates relations (extended with time series fields) so fast that precalculation
is often obviated. Certainly when the raw data is less than a few gigabytes.

7. Is there a parallel version ?

Yes.  Although Kdb can handle much larger databases than other database 
products without requiring parallel processing, there is a parallel
version for the largest applications. Kdb scales.
